Calvin is a fictional character, and is the title character of the comic strip Calvin and Hobbes by Bill Watterson. Calvin demonstrates a level of wisdom, vocabulary and humor unusual for a six-year-old boy. However, he is a stereotyped six-year-old and is seen as a misfit among his classmates: he absolutely hates baths, fears and hates his babysitter, refuses to go to school, frequently disobeys his parents, and is lazy and selfish. Calvin frequently loses himself in various fantastical worlds of his own imagining. On the rare occasions on which he applies himself, Calvin's projects in school are very well received, to his confusion or indifference. He shows relatively minor interest or success in interacting with any "real" characters, choosing instead to spend the majority of his time with Hobbes, with whom he frequently embarks on adventures, debates philosophical issues, plots various pranks against girls, and fights.

Named after 16th century theologian John Calvin,[1] the character of Calvin is presented as being intelligent and verbose, with an imagination that usually manifests itself in the comic strip as an apparent physical existence. He despises school as an institution, directly criticizing teaching methods and enforced conformity. He often delivers sarcastic responses to dull fact-oriented questions on tests. Calvin consistently receives bad grades, simply because the subjects do not interest him enough for him to work at them. Occasionally, Calvin will receive excellent grades for a project he truly was interested in, such as dinosaurs. Calvin has a wide vocabulary and an advanced sense of irony. His grapples with philosophical quandaries are explored most elaborately during hazardous sled and wagon rides, often visual metaphors for the point of discourse which are usually cut short by a crash, banal distraction, mischievous urge, or sarcastic retort from one of his parents.

Rather than seek real help, Calvin usually defers to Hobbes, who despite his regal and wise demeanor, shares Calvin's penchant for creative stupidity. They are frequently depicted as partners in mischief and rarely take away the correct lesson when their schemes backfire. As Hobbes puts it, "Live and don't learn, that's us!" Despite their frequent fights, some less playful than others, Calvin considers Hobbes the most intelligent creature in his life and rarely perceives his "help" as misguided or deceitful.

Calvin sometimes displays minor antisocial tendencies, once wishing he were dead (only to add he really wished that everyone else were dead), and showing reluctance to participate in group activities or join organizations, frequently disrupting them when forced to participate anyway (although on the rare occasions he does attempt to follow the rules, he usually breaks them by accident). His fantasies also revolve around this, and they may frequently consist of people he knows or masses of people getting killed, such as a pack of Deinonychus attacking a school (by eating Susie Derkins first) or Calvin flying an F-15 fighter jet and launching missiles into his school, destroying it and leaving a smoking crater (only to show great disappointment when he knows it's just fantasy). Although early in the strip's run Calvin was depicted as a Cub Scout, this did not recur. He says to Susie that he did not sign up for recess baseball because he absolutely hates organized sports, and later creates Calvinball as its antithesis, the only permanent rule being that it can never be played the same way twice. The reason why Calvinball was made was because Calvin left the baseball team after he caught the ball for the wrong team and everyone yelled at him.
Calvin's precocious vocabulary, imagination and curiosity frequently clash with his refusal to learn things he does not want to, from teachers, parents or the lessons that emerge from his follies. He does, however, enjoy learning by choice and has a wide knowledge of dinosaurs. When his father asks why his enjoyment of learning is not reflected in his school performance, Calvin replies, "We don't read about dinosaurs." He frequently daydreams in class, imagining it variously as a prison, an alien planet, or the setting of a space battle, with the characters of Miss Wormwood or other students appearing as antagonistic aliens. He is not against learning new things so long as he doesn't feel like he's being forced to do so, he believes that "if no one makes you do it, it counts as fun."

Rather than seek real help, Calvin usually defers to Hobbes, who despite his regal and wise demeanor, shares Calvin's penchant for creative stupidity. They are frequently depicted as partners in mischief and rarely take away the correct lesson when their schemes backfire. As Hobbes puts it, "Live and don't learn, that's us!" Despite their frequent fights, some less playful than others, Calvin considers Hobbes the most intelligent creature in his life and rarely perceives his "help" as misguided or deceitful.




